---
title: "9 of My Favorite Oscar Nominated Movies ..."
description: "12 Years a Slave; The Wolf of Wall Street; Despicable Me 2; The Great Gatsby; The Hobbit: Desolation of Smaug; More ..."
url: "https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/of-my-favorite-oscar-nominated-movies/"
category: "movies"
last_updated: "2026-07-21"
---

# 9 of My Favorite Oscar Nominated Movies ...

Now that Academy Award season is almost in full swing, I can't help but be excited at the thought of my favorite Oscar nominated movies taking home the most coveted awards. From Best Picture to Directing, each category features tough competition, making the stakes even higher. While I feel that many films have been unjustly looked over (i.e. "The Butler" and "Saving Mr. Banks"), I must admit that there are a few choices that I am fully behind. Fellow film aficionados, there's a chance that your interest will be just as piqued by these acclaimed Oscar nominated movies.

## 1. 12 Years a Slave

Based on the 1853 memoir of Solomon Northup, the gut-wrenchingly raw "12 Years a Slave" is, without question, one of my favorite oscar nominated movies. Focusing on the struggles of a freed man sold into slavery, this film has rightfully received nine Academy Award nominations (one of which is for Best Picture). From the talented cast (including Chiwetel Ejiofor, Lupita Nyong'o, Michael Fassbender, and Benedict Cumberbatch) to Steve McQueen's directorial prowess, everything about this film is brilliant.

## 2. The Wolf of Wall Street

Also nominated for Best Picture, I don't think I've ever spent quite as much time laughing in a theatre as when I caught "The Wolf of Wall Street", a film that revolves around the financial exploits of a deceitful stockbroker during the 1980s. As a fan of Leonardo DiCaprio, I have to say that he puts in an amazing performance! The hilarious Jonah Hill does not disappoint with his witty humor; also, P.J. Byrne delivers pretty clever lines that will have you folding over.

## 3. Despicable Me 2

Don't get me started on my love for those sweet and quirky minions! This vote may be a bit biased as I am a total sucker for Gru and Dr. Nefario. Starring Steve Carell, Russell Brand, and Miranda Cosgrove, this funny film about an evil turned good villain truly deserves its spot in the Best Animated Feature Film category.

## 4. The Great Gatsby

While I feel that this film deserves a nomination for its exquisite cinematography, as well as its marvelous cast, I am happy to hear that the work of the fabulous Catherine Martin is being recognized. Up for best Costume and Production Design, "The Great Gatsby" certainly stunned audiences with its aesthetic vision. As a lover of the roaring twenties era, I found the vintage inspired costumes to be quite delightful.

## 5. The Hobbit: Desolation of Smaug

I will always be irrevocably in love with the intricate cinematography of this next film. In the categories of Sound Mixing and Sound Editing, there is no contender. I love this movie to the point where I'll be crossing fingers for this film adaptation to take home any award. That's how phenomenal it is!

## 6. Dallas Buyers Club

I'd first like to commend every actor involved for their flawless performances. With a focus on the story of an electrician and cowboy who is diagnosed with H.I.V., it's great to see that this film is being acknowledged. I was also pleasantly surprised by Matthew McConaughey, Jennifer Garner and Jared Leto's flawless acting.

## 7. American Hustle

This was definitely one of my favorite movies to be released last year. Backed by a cast of A-list stars, "American Hustle" certainly lives up to all of the hype generated by critics. Receiving a stunning ten nominations, this account of the FBI ABSCAM sting operation against corrupt leaders during the 1970s - 1980s is effortlessly depicted and directed David O. Russell.

## 8. Gravity

I found Sandra Bullock and George Clooney's performance to be positively stellar. This sci-fi thriller centering on the attempts of two astronauts to survive while stranded in space after the explosion of their space shuttle is quite gripping.

## 9. Frozen

Lastly, "Frozen" has taken the world by storm. As a Disney fanatic, it would be wrong for me not to include this astonishing film on this list. Nominated in the Animated Feature Film category, I'm just as stoked to see how well this movie has done as I am about "Despicable Me 2". Anything involving the lovely Kristen Bell and Idina Menzel is bound to be a classic.

I can't wait to see which films will win these spectacular honors; I wish the best of luck to all of the teams involved in the making of these awesome films. What Oscar nominated films will you be rooting for? Are there any moves that you were surprised to see didn't get any nominations?

## Related Posts

- [7 Amazing Movies Based on Classic Novels ...](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/amazing-movies-based-on-classic-novels/)
- [7 Adam Sandler Movies You Must Watch ASAP!](https://7fun.net/adam-sandler-movies-you-must-watch-asap/)
- [paris color riche le stylo eye blinged brilliant](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/oscar-nominated-films-you-should-be-seeing-now/)
- [9 Noughties Films That Will Take You Back to Being...](https://7fun.net/noughties-films-that-will-take-you-back-to-being-a-teenager/)
- [7 Hugh Grant Movies His Biggest Fans Will Love ...](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/hugh-grant-movies-his-biggest-fans-will-love/)
- [kids movies adults like](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/kids-movies-that-adults-love-just-as-much/)
- [color le shadow hollywood](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/oscar-nominated-movies-the-world-has-fallen-in-love-with/)
- [riche le stylo eye unforgettable](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/movies-starring-real-life-couples-that-we-love/)
- [7 2014 BAFTA Winning Movies That Have Stolen Our H...](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/bafta-winning-movies-that-have-stolen-our-hearts/)
- [most beloved movies of all time](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/of-the-most-beloved-classic-movies-of-all-time/)
- [9 of the Most Romantic Movies ...](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/9-of-the-most-romantic-movies/)
- [My 7 All-time Favorite Movies ...](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/my-all-time-favorite-movies/)

## Site Information

- [Main page](https://allwomenstalk.com)
- [Contact us](https://allwomenstalk.com/contact.html)
- [HTML article](https://movies.allwomenstalk.com/of-my-favorite-oscar-nominated-movies/)

